Tournament … well, some of you will not know what
this tournament involves, so I hope those who do
know will forgive me for giving a short explanation,
and allow their attention to wander freely.
“The Triwizard Tournament was first established
some seven hundred years ago as a friendly
competition between the three largest European
schools of wizardry: Hogwarts, Beauxbatons, and
Durmstrang. A champion was selected to represent
each school, and the three champions competed in
three magical tasks. The schools took it in turns to
host the tournament once every five years, and it was
generally agreed to be a most excellent way of
establishing ties between young witches and wizards
of different nationalities — until, that is, the death toll
mounted so high that the tournament was
discontinued.”
“Death toll?” Hermione whispered, looking alarmed.
But her anxiety did not seem to be shared by the
majority of students in the Hall; many of them werewww.ztcprep.com
whispering excitedly to one another, and Harry
himself was far more interested in hearing about the
tournament than in worrying about deaths that had
happened hundreds of years ago.
“There have been several attempts over the centuries
to reinstate the tournament,” Dumbledore continued,
“none of which has been very successful. However,
our own departments of International Magical
Cooperation and Magical Games and Sports have
P a g e | 207
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
decided the time is ripe for another attempt. We have worked hard over the
summer to ensure that this
time, no champion will find himself or herself in
mortal danger.
“The heads of Beauxbatons and Durmstrang will be
arriving with their short-listed contenders in October,
and the selection of the three champions will take
place at Halloween. An impartial judge will decide
which students are most worthy to compete for the
Triwizard Cup, the glory of their school, and awww.ztcprep.com
thousand Galleons personal prize money.”
“I’m going for it!” Fred Weasley hissed down the table,
his face lit with enthusiasm at the prospect of such
glory and riches. He was not the only person who
seemed to be visualizing himself as the Hogwarts
champion. At every House table, Harry could see
people either gazing raptly at Dumbledore, or else
whispering fervently to their neighbors. But then
Dumbledore spoke again, and the Hall quieted once
more.
“Eager though I know all of you will be to bring the
Triwizard Cup to Hogwarts,” he said, “the heads of the
participating schools, along with the Ministry of
Magic, have agreed to impose an age restriction on
contenders this year. Only students who are of age —
that is to say, seventeen years or older — will be
allowed to put forward their names for consideration.
This” — Dumbledore raised his voice slightly, for
several people had made noises of outrage at these
words, and the Weasley twins were suddenly lookingwww.ztcprep.com
furious — “is a measure we feel is necessary, given
that the tournament tasks will still be difficult and
dangerous, whatever precautions we take, and it is
highly unlikely that students below sixth and seventh
year will be able to cope with them. I will personally
be ensuring that no underage student hoodwinks our
P a g e | 208
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
impartial judge into making them Hogwarts
champion.” His light blue eyes twinkled as they
flickered over Fred’s and George’s mutinous faces. “I
therefore beg you not to waste your time submitting
yourself if you are under seventeen.
“The delegations from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang
will be arriving in October and remaining with us for
the greater part of this year. I know that you will all
extend every courtesy to our foreign guests while they
are with us, and will give your whole-hearted support
to the Hogwarts champion when he or she is selected.
And now, it is late, and I know how important it is towww.ztcprep.com
you all to be alert and rested as you enter your
lessons tomorrow morning. Bedtime! Chop chop!”
Dumbledore sat down again and turned to talk to
Mad-Eye Moody. There was a great scraping and
banging as all the students got to their feet and
swarmed toward the double doors into the entrance
hall.
“They can’t do that!” said George Weasley, who had
not joined the crowd moving toward the door, but was
standing up and glaring at Dumbledore. “We’re
seventeen in April, why can’t we have a shot?”
“They’re not stopping me entering,” said Fred
stubbornly, also scowling at the top table. “The
champions’ll get to do all sorts of stuff you’d never be
allowed to do normally. And a thousand Galleons
prize money!”
“Yeah,” said Ron, a faraway look on his face. “Yeah, a
thousand Galleons …”
“Come on,” said Hermione, “we’ll be the only ones left
here if you don’t move.”www.ztcprep.com
P a g e | 209
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, and George set off for the entrance hall, Fred
and George debating the ways
in which Dumbledore might stop those who were
under seventeen from entering the tournament.
“Who’s this impartial judge who’s going to decide who
the champions are?” said Harry.
“Dunno,” said Fred, “but it’s them we’ll have to fool. I
reckon a couple of drops of Aging Potion might do it,
George. …”
“Dumbledore knows you’re not of age, though,” said
Ron.
“Yeah, but he’s not the one who decides who the
champion is, is he?” said Fred shrewdly. “Sounds to
me like once this judge knows who wants to enter,
he’ll choose the best from each school and never mind
how old they are. Dumbledore’s trying to stop us
giving our names.”
“People have died, though!” said Hermione in a
worried voice as they walked through a doorwww.ztcprep.com
concealed behind a tapestry and started up another,
narrower staircase.
“Yeah,” said Fred airily, “but that was years ago,
wasn’t it? Anyway, where’s the fun without a bit of
risk? Hey, Ron, what if we find out how to get ’round
Dumbledore? Fancy entering?”
“What d’you reckon?” Ron asked Harry. “Be cool to
enter, wouldn’t it? But I s’pose they might want
someone older. … Dunno if we’ve learned enough. …”
“I definitely haven’t,” came Neville’s gloomy voice from
behind Fred and George.
P a g e | 210
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
“I expect my gran’d want me to try, though. She’s
always going on about how I should be upholding the
family honor. I’ll just have to — oops. …”
Neville’s foot had sunk right through a step halfway
up the staircase. There were many of these trick
stairs at Hogwarts; it was second nature to most of
the older students to jump this particular step, butwww.ztcprep.com
Neville’s memory was notoriously poor. Harry and
Ron seized him under the armpits and pulled him
out, while a suit of armor at the top of the stairs
creaked and clanked, laughing wheezily.
“Shut it, you,” said Ron, banging down its visor as
they passed.
They made their way up to the entrance to Gryffindor
Tower, which was concealed behind a large portrait of
a fat lady in a pink silk dress.
“Password?” she said as they approached.
“Balderdash,” said George, “a prefect downstairs told
me.”
The portrait swung forward to reveal a hole in the wall
through which they all climbed. A crackling fire
warmed the circular common room, which was full of
squashy armchairs and tables. Hermione cast the
merrily dancing flames a dark look, and Harry
distinctly heard her mutter “Slave labor, ” before
bidding them good night and disappearing through
the doorway to the girls’ dormitory.www.ztcprep.com
Harry, Ron, and Neville climbed up the last, spiral
staircase until they reached their own dormitory,
which was situated at the top of the tower. Five four-
poster beds with deep crimson hangings stood against
the walls, each with its owner’s trunk at the foot.