“My Lord, may I ask how long we are going to stay
here?”
“A week,” said the cold voice. “Perhaps longer. The
place is moderately comfortable, and the plan cannot
proceed yet. It would be foolish to act before the
Quidditch World Cup is over.”
Frank inserted a gnarled finger into his ear and
rotated it. Owing, no doubt, to a buildup of earwax,
he had heard the word “Quidditch,” which was not a
word at all.
“The — the Quidditch World Cup, My Lord?” said
Wormtail. (Frank dug his finger still more vigorously
into his ear.) “Forgive me, but — I do not understand
— why should we wait until the World Cup is over?”
“Because, fool, at this very moment wizards are
pouring into the country from all over the world, and
every meddler from the Ministry of Magic will be on
duty, on the watch for signs of unusual activity,
checking and double-checking identities. They will be
obsessed with security, lest the Muggles noticewww.ztcprep.com
anything. So we wait.”
Frank stopped trying to clear out his ear. He had
distinctly heard the words “Ministry of Magic,”
“wizards,” and “Muggles.” Plainly, each of these
expressions meant something secret, and Frank could
think of only two sorts of people who would speak in
P a g e | 9
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
code: spies and criminals. Frank tightened his hold on his walking stick
once more, and listened more
closely still.
“Your Lordship is still determined, then?” Wormtail
said quietly.
“Certainly I am determined, Wormtail.” There was a
note of menace in the cold voice now.
A slight pause followed — and then Wormtail spoke,
the words tumbling from him in a rush, as though he
was forcing himself to say this before he lost his
nerve.
“It could be done without Harry Potter, My Lord.”
Another pause, more protracted, and then —www.ztcprep.com
“Without Harry Potter?” breathed the second voice
softly. “I see …”
“My Lord, I do not say this out of concern for the boy!”
said Wormtail, his voice rising squeakily. “The boy is
nothing to me, nothing at all! It is merely that if we
were to use another witch or wizard — any wizard —
the thing could be done so much more quickly! If you
allowed me to leave you for a short while — you know
that I can disguise myself most effectively — I could
be back here in as little as two days with a suitable
person —”
“I could use another wizard,” said the cold voice
softly, “that is true. …”
“My Lord, it makes sense,” said Wormtail, sounding
thoroughly relieved now. “Laying hands on Harry
Potter would be so difficult, he is so well protected —”
P a g e | 10
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
“And so you volunteer to go and fetch me a
substitute? I wonder … perhaps the task of nursingwww.ztcprep.com
me has become wearisome for you, “Wormtail? Could
this suggestion of abandoning the plan be nothing
more than an attempt to desert me?”
“My Lord! I — I have no wish to leave you, none at all
—”
“Do not lie to me!” hissed the second voice. “I can
always tell, Wormtail! You are regretting that you ever
returned to me. I revolt you. I see you flinch when you
look at me, feel you shudder when you touch me. …”
“No! My devotion to Your Lordship —”
“Your devotion is nothing more than cowardice. You
would not be here if you had anywhere else to go.
How am I to survive without you, when I need feeding
every few hours? Who is to milk Nagini?”
“But you seem so much stronger, My Lord —”
“Liar,” breathed the second voice. “I am no stronger,
and a few days alone would be enough to rob me of
the little health I have regained under your clumsy
care. Silence!”
Wormtail, who had been sputtering incoherently, fellwww.ztcprep.com
silent at once. For a few seconds, Frank could hear
nothing but the fire crackling. Then the second man
spoke once more, in a whisper that was almost a hiss.
“I have my reasons for using the boy, as I have
already explained to you, and I will use no other. I
have waited thirteen years. A few more months will
make no difference. As for the protection surrounding
the boy, I believe my plan will be effective. All that is
needed is a little courage from you, Wormtail —
P a g e | 11
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
courage you will find, unless you wish to feel the full extent of Lord
Voldemort’s wrath —”
“My Lord, I must speak!” said Wormtail, panic in his
voice now. “All through our journey I have gone over
the plan in my head — My Lord, Bertha Jorkins’s
disappearance will not go unnoticed for long, and if
we proceed, if I murder —”
“If?” whispered the second voice. “If? If you follow the
plan, Wormtail, the Ministry need never know that
anyone else has died. You will do it quietly andwww.ztcprep.com
without fuss; I only wish that I could do it myself, but
in my present condition … Come, Wormtail, one more
death and our path to Harry Potter is clear. I am not
asking you to do it alone. By that time, my faithful
servant will have rejoined us —”
“I am a faithful servant,” said Wormtail, the merest
trace of sullenness in his voice.
“Wormtail, I need somebody with brains, somebody
whose loyalty has never wavered, and you,
unfortunately, fulfill neither requirement.”
“I found you,” said Wormtail, and there was definitely
a sulky edge to his voice now. “I was the one who
found you. I brought you Bertha Jorkins.”
“That is true,” said the second man, sounding
amused. “A stroke of brilliance I would not have
thought possible from you, Wormtail — though, if
truth be told, you were not aware how useful she
would be when you caught her, were you?”
“I — I thought she might be useful, My Lord —”
“Liar,” said the second voice again, the cruelwww.ztcprep.com
amusement more pronounced than ever. “However, I
P a g e | 12
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – J.K. Rowling
do not deny that her information was invaluable.
Without it, I could never have formed our plan, and
for that, you will have your reward, Wormtail. I will
allow you to perform an essential task for me, one
that many of my followers would give their right
hands to perform. …”
“R-really, My Lord? What — ?” Wormtail sounded
terrified again.
“Ah, Wormtail, you don’t want me to spoil the
surprise? Your part will come at the very end … but I
promise you, you will have the honor of being just as
useful as Bertha Jorkins.”
“You … you …” Wormtail’s voice suddenly sounded
hoarse, as though his mouth had gone very dry. “You
… are going … to kill me too?”
“Wormtail, Wormtail,” said the cold voice silkily, “why
would I kill you? I killed Bertha because I had to. Shewww.ztcprep.com
was fit for nothing after my questioning, quite
useless. In any case, awkward questions would have
been asked if she had gone back to the Ministry with
the news that she had met you on her holidays.
Wizards who are supposed to be dead would do well
not to run into Ministry of Magic witches at wayside
inns. …”
Wormtail muttered something so quietly that Frank
could not hear it, but it made the second man laugh
— an entirely mirthless laugh, cold as his speech.
“We could have modified her memory? But Memory
Charms can be broken by a powerful wizard, as I
proved when I questioned her. It would be an insult to
her memory not to use the information I extracted
from her, Wormtail.”